Release Process (#2)
Babylonpartners/ios-playbook: README.md

## 4. Release process

### Release engineer as a role

  The release engineer responsibilities are, but not limited to:

  1. Own the entire release process (step-by-step).
  2. Provide visibility, at all stages, of the release to the wider audience (e.g. squad, tribe and iOS chapter lead).
  3. Collaborate with QA by:
    1. Providing visibility to potential blockers to the wider audience.
    2. Escalating abnormal influx of bugs, so the release, as a whole, can be reassessed.

>   4. Making sure he/she can dedicate enough time for the release. In case this is not possible (due to other squad commitments), please inform the iOS chapter lead.

Reviewer: AFAIK we are now consolidating to the singular `they` for gender-neutral pronouns. So this might become `4. Making sure they can dedicate enough time for the release.`

## 4. Release process

> ### Release engineer as a role

Reviewer 2: I'd consider putting it into a separate file in subfolder, i.e. `Release Process/README.md`. This way when opening this folder on GitHub it will show this readme as if it was the main readme. And we can link to it from the main Readme (I think it also supports sections for headers out of the box)

Author: Let's do that after we have these different `Work in progress` fixed. Right now I think we should focus on the standard (what sort of information we share) and the format of the information. We can look at the location later.

  The release engineer responsibilities are, but not limited to:

  1. Own the entire release process (step-by-step).
  2. Provide visibility, at all stages, of the release to the wider audience (e.g. squad, tribe and iOS chapter lead).
  3. Collaborate with QA by:

>     1. Providing visibility to potential blockers to the wider audience.

Reviewer: This indentation doesn't look like it's working unfortunately 
<img width="953" alt="screen shot 2018-10-22 at 16 13 20" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/773004/47300869-76c3c980-d615-11e8-9766-8ef60ee738e8.png">

Author: Fixed.

### Release calendar

Effort to release should be broken down by:

1. Automated QA effort (e.g. `5h`)
2. Manual QA effort (e.g. `3h`)
3. Delta between the jira ticket being open and marked as `done` or `wont fix`, for Engineering effort. (e.g. `UA-8289: 1h30`)
4. Total effort

| Version                  | Release Engineer(s)              | QA effort              | Engineering effort | Total effort |
|--------------------------|----------------------------------| ---------------------- |--------------------|--------------|
| 3.2.0                    | Danilo Aliberti                  | Automated: `12h53`<br>Manual: `10h`<br>| `UA-8166: 4h`<br>`UA-8149: 2d`<br>`UA-8187: 3h`<br>| Total: **3d6h** |

### Release step-by-step

1. Cut a release branch when the sprint ends (typically when the new sprint starts on Monday). Create a new branch from develop and push to origin (e.g `release/3.2.0`).
2. Bump the release version by triggering its command (eg. `/release babylon:3.2.0`) in `#ios-builds` (you can run the command every time you want to upload a new build).

>     1. This creates a test Tesflight build (try to do one as early as possible, so that you can catch issues like missing/expired certificates or profiles and any other production build errors early)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * This creates a test Tesflight build (try to make one as early as possible so that you can catch issues like missing/expired certificates or profiles and any other production build errors early)
```

> 3. Trigger a hockey build from that branch (Triggering builds in Slack)

Reviewer 3: There's no "Triggering builds in Slack" section or document here. Maybe consider removing this for the time being?

4. Testers will then begin their work against the build you just created.

> 5. Any hotfix should target that branch, you, as the release engineer, are responsible for double checking the hotfix PR is pointing to the release branch (instead of develop). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Any hotfix should target that branch, and you, as the release engineer, are responsible for double checking that the hotfix's PR is pointing to the release branch (instead of `develop`). 
```

7. Create a board for the release. Use a filter to reduce its scope, eg `project = UA AND affectedVersion = "iOS 3.2.0"`.

> 8. Create a new version in AppStoreConnect (login using your own account) / My Apps - on sidebar: + Version or Platform: iOS, input the version number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Create a new version in iTunes Connect (login using your own account) / My Apps - on sidebar: + Version or Platform: iOS, input the version number.
```

Author: It's now called `AppStoreConnect ` not iTunes Connect.

    3. Check if you need anything from the Marketing Team. (`#MarketingQuestions`)
    4. Send the release notes to `#ClinicsOps`, so they have visibility on the release.
9. Perform a quick exploratory test on the TestFlight build to make sure everything looks okay.
(e.g. verifying that DigitalTwin Assets are visible and are not dropped due to Git LFS issues)
10. By now, QA should be notified that there is a new version in TestFlight.
11. When QA has signed off a particular build, submit the app to Apple.
    1. Make sure the release is Manual.
    2. When submitting to release, you are asked if the app uses the Advertising Identifier (IDFA). The answer is YES. You are then presented with three options please select as followed:
    1. 🚫 Serve advertisements within the app
    2. ✅ Attribute this app installation to a previously served advertisement
    3. ✅ Attribute an action taken within this app to a previously served advertisement
12 Once the app is accepted by Apple
    1. Tag the release and upload the binary. (If you're using the automated release command, you can find the binary in the Artifacts top section in the CI build).
    2. Merge the changes back to develop.

> 13. Please fill the release calendar.

Reviewer: It looks like either this one or https://github.com/Babylonpartners/ios-playbook/pull/2/files#diff-04c6e90faac2675aa89e2176d2eec7d8R105 are redundant
